<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title><em>xiv</em></title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 class="xhtml_h3_align" style="text-align: center;"><em>all</em> <em>persons</em> <em>are</em> <em>warned</em> <em>not</em> <em>to</em> <em>venture</em> <em>upon</em> <em>this</em> <em>desert</em><br/>
			<br/>
			For the Deadly Sands will Turn Any Living Flesh<br/>
			to Dust in an instant. Beyond This Barrier is the<br/>
			<br/>
			<em>land</em> <em>of</em> <em>oz</em><br/>
			<br/>
			But no one can Reach that Beautiful Country<br/>
			because of these Destroying Sands</h3>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<p>“Oh,” said Dorothy, when the shaggy man had read the sign aloud; “I’ve seen this desert before, and it’s true no one can live who tries to walk upon the sands.”</p>
			<p>“Then we musn’t try it,” answered the shaggy man thoughtfully. “But as we can’t go ahead and there’s no use going back, what shall we do next?”</p>
			<p>“Don’t know,” said Button-Bright.</p>
			<p>“I’m sure I don’t know, either,” added Dorothy, despondently.</p>
			<p>“I wish father would come for me,” sighed the pretty Rainbow’s Daughter, “I would take you all to live upon the rainbow, where you could dance along its rays from morning till night, without a care or worry of any sort. But I suppose father’s too busy just now to search the world for me.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t want to dance,” said Button-Bright, sitting down wearily upon the soft grass.</p>
			<p>“It’s very good of you, Polly,” said Dorothy; “but there are other things that would suit me better than dancing on rainbows. I’m ‘fraid they’d be kind of soft an’ squashy under foot, anyhow, although they’re so pretty to look at.”</p>
			<p>This didn’t help to solve the problem, and they all fell silent and looked at one another questioningly.</p>
			<p>“Really, I don’t know what to do,” muttered the shaggy man, gazing hard at Toto; and the little dog wagged his tail and said “Bow-wow!” just as if he could not tell, either, what to do. Button-Bright got a stick and began to dig in the earth, and the others watched him for a while in deep thought. Finally, the shaggy man said:</p>
			<p>“It’s nearly evening, now; so we may as well sleep in this pretty place and get rested; perhaps by morning we can decide what is best to be done.”</p>
			<p>There was little chance to make beds for the children, but the leaves of the trees grew thickly and would serve to keep off the night dews, so the shaggy man piled soft grasses in the thickest shade and when it was dark they lay down and slept peacefully until morning.</p>
			<p>Long after the others were asleep, however, the shaggy man sat in the starlight by the spring, gazing thoughtfully into its bubbling waters. Suddenly he smiled and nodded to himself as if he had found a good thought, after which he, too, laid himself down under a tree and was soon lost in slumber.</p>
			<p>In the bright morning sunshine, as they ate of the strawberries and sweet juicy pears, Dorothy said:</p>
			<p>“Polly, can you do any magic?”</p>
			<p>“No dear,” answered Polychrome, shaking her dainty head.</p>
			<p>“You ought to know <em>some</em> magic, being the Rainbow’s Daughter,” continued Dorothy, earnestly.</p>
			<p>“But we who live on the rainbow among the fleecy clouds have no use for magic,” replied Polychrome.</p>
			<p>“What I’d like,” said Dorothy, “is to find some way to cross the desert to the Land of Oz and its Emerald City. I’ve crossed it already, you know, more than once. First a cyclone carried my house over, and some Silver Shoes brought me back again⁠—in half a second. Then Ozma took me over on her Magic Carpet, and the Nome King’s Magic Belt took me home that time. You see it was magic that did it every time ’cept the first, and we can’t ‘spect a cyclone to happen along and take us to the Emerald City now.”</p>
			<p>“No indeed,” returned Polly, with a shudder, “I hate cyclones, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“That’s why I wanted to find out if you could do any magic,” said the little Kansas girl. “I’m sure I can’t; and I’m sure Button-Bright can’t; and the only magic the shaggy man has is the Love Magnet, which won’t help us much.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be too sure of that, my dear,” spoke the shaggy man, a smile on his donkey face. “I may not be able to do magic myself, but I can call to us a powerful friend who loves me because I own the Love Magnet, and this friend surely will be able to help us.”</p>
			<p>“Who is your friend?” asked Dorothy.</p>
			<p>“Johnny Dooit.”</p>
			<p>“What can Johnny do?”</p>
			<p>“Anything,” answered the shaggy man, with confidence.</p>
			<p>“Ask him to come,” she exclaimed, eagerly.</p>
			<p>The shaggy man took the Love Magnet from his pocket and unwrapped the paper that surrounded it. Holding the charm in the palm of his hand he looked at it steadily and said these words:</p>
			<p class="poem">“Dear Johnny Dooit, come to me.<br/>
			I need you bad as bad can be.”</p>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<p>“Well, here I am,” said a cheery little voice; “but you shouldn’t say you need me bad, ‘cause I’m always, <em>always</em>, good.”</p>
			<p>At this they quickly whirled around to find a funny little man sitting on a big copper chest, puffing smoke from a long pipe. His hair was grey, his whiskers were grey; and these whiskers were so long that he had wound the ends of them around his waist and tied them in a hard knot underneath the leather apron that reached from his chin nearly to his feet, and which was soiled and scratched as if it had been used a long time. His nose was broad, and stuck up a little; but his eyes were twinkling and merry. The little man’s hands and arms were as hard and tough as the leather in his apron, and Dorothy thought Johnny Dooit looked as if he had done a lot of hard work in his lifetime.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Johnny,” said the shaggy man. “Thank you for coming to me so quickly.”</p>
			<p>“I never waste time,” said the newcomer, promptly. “But what’s happened to you? Where did you get that donkey head? Really, I wouldn’t have known you at all, Shaggy Man, if I hadn’t looked at your feet.”</p>
			<p>The shaggy man introduced Johnny Dooit to Dorothy and Toto and Button-Bright and the Rainbow’s Daughter, and told him the story of their adventures, adding that they were anxious now to reach the Emerald City in the Land of Oz, where Dorothy had friends who would take care of them and send them safe home again.</p>
			<p>“But,” said he, “we find that we can’t cross this desert, which turns all living flesh that touches it into dust; so I have asked you to come and help us.”</p>
			<p>Johnny Dooit puffed his pipe and looked carefully at the dreadful desert in front of them⁠—stretching so far away they could not see its end.</p>
			<p>“You must ride,” he said, briskly.</p>
			<p>“What in?” asked the shaggy man.</p>
			<p>“In a sand-boat, which has runners like a sled and sails like a ship. The wind will blow you swiftly across the desert and the sand cannot touch your flesh to turn it into dust.”</p>
			<p>“Good!” cried Dorothy, clapping her hands delightedly. “That was the way the Magic Carpet took us across. We didn’t have to touch the horrid sand at all.”</p>
			<p>“But where is the sand-boat?” asked the shaggy man, looking all around him.</p>
			<p>“I’ll make you one,” said Johnny Dooit.</p>
			<p>As he spoke, he knocked the ashes from his pipe and put it in his pocket. Then he unlocked the copper chest and lifted the lid, and Dorothy saw it was full of shining tools of all sorts and shapes.</p>
			<p>Johnny Dooit moved quickly now⁠—so quickly that they were astonished at the work he was able to accomplish. He had in his chest a tool for everything he wanted to do, and these must have been magic tools because they did their work so fast and so well.</p>
			<p>The man hummed a little song as he worked, and Dorothy tried to listen to it. She thought the words were something like these:</p>
			<p class="poem">The only way to do a thing<br/>
			Is do it when you can,<br/>
			And do it cheerfully, and sing<br/>
			And work and think and plan.<br/>
			The only real unhappy one<br/>
			Is he who dares to shirk;<br/>
			The only really happy one<br/>
			Is he who cares to work.<br/></p>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<p>Whatever Johnny Dooit was singing he was certainly doing things, and they all stood by and watched him in amazement.</p>
			<p>He seized an axe and in a couple of chops felled a tree. Next he took a saw and in a few minutes sawed the tree-trunk into broad, long boards. He then nailed the boards together into the shape of a boat, about twelve feet long and four feet wide. He cut from another tree a long, slender pole which, when trimmed of its branches and fastened upright in the center of the boat, served as a mast. From the chest he drew a coil of rope and a big bundle of canvas, and with these⁠—still humming his song⁠—he rigged up a sail, arranging it so it could be raised or lowered upon the mast.</p>
			<p>Dorothy fairly gasped with wonder to see the thing grow so speedily before her eyes, and both Button-Bright and Polly looked on with the same absorbed interest.</p>
			<p>“It ought to be painted,” said Johnny Dooit, tossing his tools back into the chest, “for that would make it look prettier. But ‘though I can paint it for you in three seconds it would take an hour to dry, and that’s a waste of time.”</p>
			<p>“We don’t care how it looks,” said the shaggy man, “if only it will take us across the desert.”</p>
			<p>“It will do that,” declared Johnny Dooit. “All you need worry about is tipping over. Did you ever sail a ship?”</p>
			<p>“I’ve seen one sailed,” said the shaggy man.</p>
			<p>“Good. Sail this boat the way you’ve seen a ship sailed, and you’ll be across the sands before you know it.”</p>
			<p>With this he slammed down the lid of the chest, and the noise made them all wink. While they were winking the workman disappeared, tools and all.</p>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<a id="chap12"/>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
