<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title><em>xxiii</em></title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 class="xhtml_h3_align" style="text-align: center;">Here Lies the Mortal Part of<br/>
			<em>jack</em> <em>pumpkinhead</em><br/>
			Which Spoiled January 24th.<br/></h3>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<p>“Poor Jack!” sighed Dorothy. “I’m sorry he had to die in three parts, for I hoped to see him again.”</p>
			<p>“So you shall,” declared the Tin Woodman, “since he is still alive. Come with me to his house, for Jack is now a farmer and lives in this very pumpkin field.”</p>
			<p>They walked over to a monstrous big, hollow pumpkin which had a door and windows cut through the rind. There was a stovepipe running through the stem, and six steps had been built leading up to the front door.</p>
			<p>They walked up to this door and looked in. Seated on a bench was a man clothed in a spotted shirt, a red vest, and faded blue trousers, whose body was merely sticks of wood, jointed clumsily together. On his neck was set a round, yellow pumpkin, with a face carved on it such as a boy often carves on a jack-lantern.</p>
			<p>This queer man was engaged in snapping slippery pumpkin-seeds with his wooden fingers, trying to hit a target on the other side of the room with them. He did not know he had visitors until Dorothy exclaimed:</p>
			<p>“Why, it’s Jack Pumpkinhead himself!”</p>
			<p>He turned and saw them, and at once came forward to greet the little Kansas girl and Nick Chopper, and to be introduced to their new friends.</p>
			<p>Button-Bright was at first rather shy with the quaint Pumpkinhead, but Jack’s face was so jolly and smiling⁠—being carved that way⁠—that the boy soon grew to like him.</p>
			<p>“I thought a while ago that you were buried in three parts,” said Dorothy, “but now I see you’re just the same as ever.”</p>
			<p>“Not quite the same, my dear, for my mouth is a little more one-sided than it used to be; but pretty nearly the same. I’ve a new head, and this is the fourth one I’ve owned since Ozma first made me and brought me to life by sprinkling me with the Magic Powder.”</p>
			<p>“What became of the other heads, Jack?”</p>
			<p>“They spoiled and I buried them, for they were not even fit for pies. Each time Ozma has carved me a new head just like the old one, and as my body is by far the largest part of me, I am still Jack Pumpkinhead, no matter how often I change my upper end. Once we had a dreadful time to find another pumpkin, as they were out of season, and so I was obliged to wear my old head a little longer than was strictly healthy. But after this sad experience I resolved to raise pumpkins myself, so as never to be caught again without one handy; and now I have this fine field that you see before you. Some grow pretty big⁠—too big to be used for heads⁠—so I dug out this one and use it for a house.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t it damp?” asked Dorothy.</p>
			<p>“Not very. There isn’t much left but the shell, you see, and it will last a long time yet.”</p>
			<p>“I think you are brighter than you used to be, Jack,” said the Tin Woodman. “Your last head was a stupid one.”</p>
			<p>“The seeds in this one are better,” was the reply.</p>
			<p>“Are you going to Ozma’s party?” asked Dorothy.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said he, “I wouldn’t miss it for anything. Ozma’s my parent, you know, because she built my body and carved my pumpkin head. I’ll follow you to the Emerald City to-morrow, where we shall meet again. I can’t go to-day, because I have to plant fresh pumpkin-seeds and water the young vines. But give my love to Ozma, and tell her I’ll be there in time for the jubilation.”</p>
			<p>“We will,” she promised; and then they all left him and resumed their journey.</p>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<a id="chap17"/>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
