<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>To My Readers</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="preface" epub:type="preface">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To My Readers</h2>
			<p>Well, my dears, here is what you have asked for: another “Oz Book” about Dorothy’s strange adventures. Toto is in this story, because you wanted him to be there, and many other characters which you will recognize are in the story, too. Indeed, the wishes of my little correspondents have been considered as carefully as possible, and if the story is not exactly as you would have written it yourselves, you must remember that a story has to be a story before it can be written down, and the writer cannot change it much without spoiling it.</p>
			<p>In the preface to “Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz” I said I would like to write some stories that were not “Oz” stories, because I thought I had written about Oz long enough; but since that volume was published I have been fairly deluged with letters from children imploring me to “write more about Dorothy,” and “more about Oz,” and since I write only to please the children I shall try to respect their wishes.</p>
			<p>There are some new characters in this book that ought to win your love. I’m very fond of the shaggy man myself, and I think you will like him, too. As for Polychrome⁠—the Rainbow’s Daughter⁠—and stupid little Button-Bright, they seem to have brought a new element of fun into these Oz stories, and I am glad I discovered them. Yet I am anxious to have you write and tell me how you like them.</p>
			<p>Since this book was written I have received some very remarkable News from The Land of Oz, which has greatly astonished me. I believe it will astonish you, too, my dears, when you hear it. But it is such a long and exciting story that it must be saved for another book⁠—and perhaps that book will be the last story that will ever be told about the Land of Oz.</p>
			<footer>
			<p epub:type="z3998:signature"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L.</abbr> Frank Baum</p>
			<p>Coronado, 1909.</p>
			</footer>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
